---
layout: post
title: "Homo Sapien- A Two legged menace"
date: 2024-12-01
tags: []
categories: [Book]
description: ""
featured: true
thumbnail: 
---

Recently i had the opportunity of getting to start Yuval Noah Harari's classic Sapiens. It has been a great read so far, I am planning to update this post as and when i complete a section of the book. In this post i plan to dig deep into the book with an existential take of course. 

## Rise to the Top

Our rise from being a bunch of unimportant weaklings on the planet to the top of the food chain has been quite a journey, Even the best of the modern day UFC fighters would get 
their skulls beaten to pulp by a wild chimpanzee in a matter of seconds. The story of such a frail being's rise to the throne is the book Sapiens. 

The Author goes in detail about what could be the reasons of our ascendency and the downfall of other species of the Homo genus. Let me digress a bit and explain you about our long 
lost cousins, We had company up until circa 10,000 BCE when the last neaderthal passed away, Leaving us orphaned forever. The Planet Earth was home to around 7 (as of now) species of Homo genus, there were Homo erectus in the Indonesian archipelagos, Homo Neandethal in the Europa and our kind in jungles of Eastern Africa. What favoured us and helped us to beat the ever changing climatic conditions and reign supreme is quite debated among the scholars.

Lets evalute the obvious reasons that come to us,

- The Size of the Brain: Yes it is definitely larger when compared with other species, but recent archialogical evidences show that the Neaderthal had much larger craniums, hence larger grey matter. 
- 

## Part-time Gossip Mongers



##
We are so clouded by the Imagined Reality, that we at times seem to forget how small and insignificant we are in this cosmos. 
